#summary want to help us?
#labels Featured
= Who you are dealing with =
Specto is a project based on volunteering (until we get rich by world domination because of the widespread use of Specto). That means that when contributing, you must be willing to make that will be readable by others, by following these few guidelines to keep things smooth.
== Communicating ==
There are some ways you can use to communicate: email directly (duh= ), email the mailing list, instant messaging (see the AUTHORS file to find how you can contact each developer), or joining us on specto@conference.jabber.org.

== The importance of knowing what each other does ==
As a project progresses, things can get pretty sticky. Kind of like the random (/b/) board on 4chan, without the sauce. In order to minimize confusion, everytime you wish to start hacking on a specific part of Specto, assign it to yourself if it's a [http://code.google.com/p/specto/issues/list bug or feature request]. This way, everyone knows what you are up to, and can avoid touching a particular module if the changes are too significant, or, if you request help, may come over and help. We recommend a rainy Saturday night and good music.

In addition to assigning the task to yourself, you should ask the other developpers on jabber or in the google group.

= Ways of contributing =
  * Hacking code
  * Filing bug reports
  * Writing documentation and keeping this wiki up to date for developers
  * Translating Specto into your language
  * Suggesting brilliant cracktastic ideas
  * Keeping the diagram of the modules up to date (requires DIA)

= Tools of the Trade =
Of course, you are absolutely free to use whatever you want to help Specto, but here are just a few hints of software we recommend if you have no idea what you should use. 
a computer running Linux, with all the dependencies satisfied
  * SVN (subversion) for access to the latest version at any time
  * A text editor for coding (gedit, bluefish, SPE, whatever)
  * Meld for viewing changes between files of different versions. Very useful, and has a feature to work with SVN.
  * A gmail account if you want to manage bugs in the issue tracker or commit code directly. If you need one, just ask Kiddo (a.k.a. nekohayo).